Have you ever packed an umbrella
just in case it starts to rain?
Sure, the extra weight and space
the umbrella takes may be inconvenient,
but you know that it's worth the hassle
to avoid getting caught in a rainstorm with no protection.
This is a simple example of why
it's important to be prepared.
And getting caught in the rain
isn't even an outcome that's all that consequential.
Think about your business.
Instead of getting caught in the rain without an umbrella,
what would you do if you got caught in a scandal,
a public relations crisis or an emergency
without a plan or any sort of protection.
Investing in crisis prevention and preparation
is critical to protecting your business and public safety.
Here are four steps you can take to get ready.
First, form of crisis team.
This is a group of people who will be responsible
for your crisis prevention, preparation,
response and recovery efforts.
Ask yourself, what perspectives
or areas of expertise should be represented?
For example, you might include leaders
in executive management
and managers in human resources, public relations,
finance, operations and information technology.
The second step is twofold,
is to understand and reduce your risk factors.
Start by bringing your crisis team together
to analyze what types of crises
are most likely to happen to your business.
Then brainstorm ways that you can reduce your risks
and prevent these crises from happening.
For example, you might realize
that you're at high risk for a crisis
if something were to happen to a critical team member.
So, you might develop a training plan for that team member
to pass on their knowledge and skills
thus reducing the risks of a crisis.
While you can't eliminate all your risk factors,
focus on the risks that are most pressing
or most preventable.
Now, let's move on to a crucial step for preparation.
The next step is to develop a crisis response plan.
A crisis response plan details procedural guidelines
for managing information, activities,
operations and communications during a crisis.
Some of the key questions your crisis response plan
should cover include how will you
determine what's considered a crisis?
What's your plan for controlling information
and communicating the crisis to the public?
What are the different roles of your crisis team members?
And what are the resources and key contacts
for dealing with the crisis?
While you can't possibly plan everything
that needs to happen for a crisis in advance,
any legwork that you do now will save you
valuable time and potential harm later.
Finally, set up regular intervals to review,
practice and refine your crisis response plan.
Conduct training sessions, practice drill or mock exercises
and try to find holes in your crisis response plan.
Make updates when you discover areas
that could be improved or clarified.
It's easy to procrastinate or underestimate
the urgency of crisis prevention and preparation.
You may tell yourself, I'll deal with that if the time comes
but this reactive approach
is perhaps the greatest threat of all,
it leaves your team, your company and the public
vulnerable to serious harm and damage.
Adopt a proactive approach to crisis management instead,
by forming a crisis team,
understanding and reducing your risks,
developing a response plan and practicing it annually.